# Attendance

# Agenda

  - Review Old Business

:\* Virtualization Environment

:\* Storage Remediation Status

:\* Review 32-bit Node Status

  - Operational Changes to Rep Com Meetings

:\* Meeting frequency

:\* Meeting content

:\* Usage of Email instead of meetings? (fixed response time)

  - State of the Cluster

# Minutes

## Old Business

  - Virtualization Environment

:\* 6 VMware ESXi servers deployed for an approximate "high
availability" VM environment.

  - Storage Remediation Status

:\* Progress on reducing/removing /gpfs0 stalled

:\* Still storage left to allocate from Spring purchase

:\* 15TB of storage is coming from WFUHS

  - Review 32-bit Node Status

:\* Are these still in use?

:\* Can we finish the decommissioning?

## New Business

> ### Rep Com Operational Changes
>
>   - Meeting frequency
>   - Meeting content
>   - Usage of Email (fixed response time)
>   - How much integration with IS functional groups is desired?
>
> :\* Might need to ask faculty for assistance in filling out IS
> internal business case documents for the initial service requests.
>
> ### State of the Cluster
>
>   - Cluster Usage Reporting
>
> <!-- end list -->
>
>   -
>     ![<File:Cluster> Memory Usage 2009-01 to
>     2010-08.png](Cluster_Memory_Usage_2009-01_to_2010-08.png
>     "File:Cluster Memory Usage 2009-01 to 2010-08.png")
>     ![<File:Cluster> Processor Usage 2009-01 to
>     2010-08.png](Cluster_Processor_Usage_2009-01_to_2010-08.png
>     "File:Cluster Processor Usage 2009-01 to 2010-08.png")
>
> <!-- end list -->
>
>   - Review 64-bit Hardware Status
>
> :\* 50% of storage nodes are out of warranty next month
>
> :\* 100% of head nodes are out of warranty next month
>
> :\* 2 clans of dual core nodes are out of warranty
>
> :\* 1.5 clans of quad core nodes are out of warranty
>
>   - Maintenance tasks/Downtime (nothing pressing yet)
>
> :\* Core network switch code update (compute node downtime required)
>
> :\* Storage updates (filesystem downtime required, whole cluster
> preferred)
>
> ### FY11 Hardware Purchases
>
>   - Cost to upgrade HS21XM with 16GB to 48GB is $6100/blade
>   - Cost of new HS22 with 48GB is $5800/blade
>
> <!-- end list -->
>
>   - Known Computational Needs
>
> :\* GPU computing Infrastructure (head node with some GPUs)
>
> :\* Test Bed Network Simulation Infrastructure (new chassis needed)
>
>   - Known Infrastructure Needs
>
> :\* Replacement storage blades
>
> :\* Additional storage blades (new WFUHS storage)
>
> :\* Second infrastructure chassis ??
>
> :\* Globus Grid/SURAgrid infrastructure
>
> :\* May need some SAN switch replacement funding
>
> :\* 10Gbps connectivity to research networks

## Action Items

:\* Digital Measures - API available to extract publications related to
the cluster. Expand their functionality on the site to select a
"cluster" check box.

:\* Send email to cluster users reminding to correct legacy scripts to
remove gpfs0 and replace with wfurc\*

:\* Send email to users requesting resource needs as a final chance to
provide input to purchase needs.

:\* List of what's getting removed, what's getting added

:\* Present whole pictures not just deltas

[Category:WFU DEAC Repcom
Meetings](Category:WFU_DEAC_Repcom_Meetings "wikilink")
