The **Intel® Cluster Studio XE 2012**\[1\] is a suite of compilers,
optimized math libraries (including BLAS, LAPACK, and some FFTW2/3), and
MPI2 implementation. Also included are a debugger, and analysis and
profiling tools.

## How to Use

There are two "flavors" of the compiler suite: one with 32-bit ints
(called "lp64" \[that's an ell\]) and one with 64-bit ints (called
"ilp64"). In most cases, the lp64 flavor is recommended. Your
application may have a special requirement for 64-bit ints, in which
case you would use ilp64. To use them, [load the appropriate
module](Quick_Start_Guide:Environment_Modules "wikilink")
with:

`    $ module load `*`modulename`*
`    where `*`modulename`*` is one of these two: compilers/intel-2012-lp64, compilers/intel-2012-ilp64`

This sets many environment variables required for using all the
components of the compiler suite.

Before running the compiled program, the same module environment must be
in effect. When writing a job script, the "module load *modulename*"
line should be included in the script before the program is invoked.

## Component Products

The Cluster Studio is a suite of products\[2\]:

  - C/C++ compilers (icc, icpc)
  - Fortran 77/95 compiler (ifort)
  - Intel Cilk Plus - concurrent and parallel programming language
  - Debugger (idb)
  - Integrated Performance Primitives (IPP) - a library of
    multicore-ready functions for data analysis and communication
  - Math Kernel Library (MKL) 10.3 - includes BLAS, LAPACK, ScaLAPACK1,
    interfaces for FFTW2/3, etc.
  - Threading Building Blocks
  - Intel MPI Library
  - Intel Inspector XE
  - Intel VTune Amplifier XE
  - Intel Trace Analyzer and Collector

## Using the Math Kernel Library (MKL) and MPI

### MKL

One of the advantages of using the Intel suite is that it includes
highly optimized numerical routines. The MKL (version 10.3 is installed)
provides BLAS, LAPACK, ScaLAPACK1, and interfaces to FFTW2/3.
Unfortunately, using the MKL is fairly complex.

To link to the MKL, and possibly other components of the compiler suite,
the link line must be obtained from the [Intel MKL Link Line
Advisor](http://software.intel.com/en-us/articles/intel-mkl-link-line-advisor/)
a web application. You provide the following inputs;

  - Intel Product: Intel(R) MKL 10.3
  - OS: Linux
  - Processor architecture: Intel(R) 64
  - Compiler: (select the one you are using)
  - Dynamic or static linking: of the three choices provided, "Single
    Dynamic Library" results in the least complex link line -- it leaves
    some decisions about sequential versus multi-threaded execution to
    run time. However, this precludes use of MPI. If your application
    needs MPI, you must select "Dynamic Library".
  - Interface layer: generally, LP64 (32-bit integers) should be used;
    your application may require ILP64 (64-bit ints)
  - OpenMP Library: Intel(R) (libiomp5) -- there is no choice
  - Cluster library: select one or more; MPI programs will require BLACS
    (Basic Linear Algebra Communication Subprograms)
  - MPI library: Intel(R) MPI -- instead of a pre-installed MPICH
  - Fortran95 interfaces: select BLAS and/or LAPACK if applicable
  - Link with MKL libraries explicitly: check ON

The output at the bottom of the page gives you a link line (all the
-Ldir and -lbar), and a compile flag specifying the directory where
include files reside. Copy them and paste into the appropriate portions
of your Makefile.

### Intel MPI

Do not use Intel's MPI implementation. We have found that it does not
work correctly. Use Open MPI 1.6 -- load the "openmpi/1.6-intel" module.
See [Quick Start Guide:GNU
OpenMPI](Quick_Start_Guide:GNU_OpenMPI "wikilink").

## Running Programs compiled with Intel

Programs compiled with the Intel compilers need certain environment
variables set in order to run. These specify, amongst other things, the
location of dynamic libraries. Before running a program, run the same
"module load" command that was used to select the Intel compiler. In job
scripts, the "module load" command should come before the program
invocation.

## Integrated Development Environment

The Intel Cluster Studio XE may be used with
[Eclipse](http://www.eclipse.org), an open source integrated development
environment. Eclipse is a [Java](http://java.oracle.com/) program. To
use the Intel compiler suite and toolchain within Eclipse, use Eclipse's
[C/C++ Development Tooling (CDT)](http://www.eclipse.org/cdt/). We do
not support Eclipse: it may be installed in your own directory.

## Typical Optimization Options

Here are some typical options used to control the optimization used when
producing compiled code:

  - \-O3: optimize for maximum speed and enable more aggressive
    optimizations that may not improve performance on some programs
  - \-xSSE4.1: May generate Intel(R) SSE4.1 instructions for Intel
    processors. Optimizes for the Intel NetBurst(R) microarchitecture.
    All cluster nodes, except for those in clan06, support SSE4.1. Nodes
    which support SSE4.2 will also support SSE4.1 (i.e. SSE is
    backwards-compatible).
  - \-no-prec-div: do *not* improve precision of floating-point divides
  - \-mieee-fp: improve floating-point precision (impacts speed)
  - \-openmp: links to OpenMP\[3\] library. N.B. this is *not* MPI or
    MPI-2.

For each compiler, you can see a long listing of available options and
flags by doing:

`    $ ifort -help | less`

(hit "Space" to advance, "B" to scroll back up, and "Q" to quit the
pager).

**N.B.** The option `-fast` produces code for static linking only. This
will not work for MPI programs. See the compiler help for more details.

## Further Information

  - [Intel Learning Lab
    Portal](http://software.intel.com/en-us/articles/intel-learning-lab/)
    - resources for learning how to use Intel software products
  - [Intel Cluster Studio
    documentation](http://software.intel.com/en-us/articles/intel-cluster-toolkit-documentation/)
  - [Resources for learning more about Intel Cluster
    Studio](http://software.intel.com/en-us/articles/intel-cluster-studio-xe/#resources)
    (includes links to PDF documents for each of the compiler
    components)

## References

<references/>

[Category:Compiling](Category:Compiling "wikilink")

1.  [Intel® Cluster Studio
    XE](http://software.intel.com/en-us/articles/intel-cluster-studio-xe/)
    (Retrieved 2012-03-28.)

2.  [OpenMP article at Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenMP)
