One of the first attention getting efforts put for by the cluster was a
collaboration between [Wake Forest University](http://www.wfu.edu/)
faculty and performing arts groups. While this page showcases those past
collaborations, we are always open to exploring new, extreme, and
unconventional uses of high performance computing capabilities in works
of visual and performing arts as well as other disciplines in the
Humanities.

### [Fibonacci and Phi: Free Space 2003](http://www.albanelved.com/fibonacci.html)

![Fib-and-Phi-Promotional-Poster.JPG](Fib-and-Phi-Promotional-Poster.JPG
"Fib-and-Phi-Promotional-Poster.JPG")

As part of a collaboration between the [Alban
Elved](http://www.albanelved.com) dance company and the Wake Forest
University [Computer Science](http://www.cs.wfu.edu) Department,
"Fibonacci and Phi: Free Space 2003" combines the realms of art and
science into a single performance. Inspired in part by Wake Forest
University's 2003-2004 [Theme year](http://themeyear.wfu.edu) focus
"Fostering Dialog: Civil Discourse in the Academic Community", the
performance challenges the notions of apparent conflict between the arts
and the sciences.

Of direct relevance to the WFU DEAC Osiris cluster, the performance uses
real time generation of fractal images. The dancers trigger particular
actions (zoom, move up, move down, etc.) on the stage through laser beam
sensors that are converted to MIDI signals. These MIDI signals are
captured on-stage and forwarded to the cluster. A MPI-based Mandelbrot
program receives the signals, calculates the fractal image, and ports
the X-Windows graphics back to the on-stage system where it is
displayed.

Three nightly performances took place from December 4-6, 2003 and one
matinee performance was held on December 7, 2003. Following each
performance, the members of the production would hold a question and
answer session to address issues related to the production, ranging from
technical details to guiding themes of the event. In addition, two
afternoon forums were held in conjunction with the production to further
the dialogue.

In addition to the performances, the scientists (Drs. [Jennifer
Burg](http://www.cs.wfu.edu/~burg/) and [Timothy
Miller](http://www.wfu.edu/~millerte/)) involved in the project
presented a paper, "Cluster Computation in Step with Real-Time Dance",
to the [International Society for Computers and Their
Applications](http://www.isca-hq.org/) 17th International Conference on
Parallel and Distributed Computing Systems (PDCS-2004).

### Related Links

  - [WFU starts 2003-2004 theme year dedicated to dialogue, civil
    discourse](http://www.wfu.edu/wfunews/2003/082003f.html)
  - [Dance and Digital Media: A Collaboration of Dancers, Artists, and
    Computer
    Scientists](http://csweb.cs.wfu.edu/~burg/albanElved/DigitalMediaDanceCollaborations.htm)
  - [Alban Elved Dance Company website](http://www.albanelved.com/)

[Category:Research](Category:Research "wikilink")
