# Attendance

# Agenda

  - RHEL6 Upgrade Status
  - User Survey (in preparation)
  - FY12 purchase in Winter/Spring
  - Narrow choice of meeting dates

# Discussion

> ## RHEL 6 Upgrade Status
>
>   - Research into infrastructure components has begun.
>   - We will finalize the framework and scope of work in the next two
>     weeks and start building out the system image.
>
> ## User Survey
>
>   - Sent a cluster user "satisfaction" survey to all users on Friday.
>
> :\* Goals: Get a quick pulse reading on our efforts. Produce a second
> survey to drill deeper if needed.
>
>   - Sent a research group "resource" survey to all users on Friday.
>
> :\* Goals: Quick gauge on some services we don't offer but other HPC
> groups do. Use the questions to start the creative juices. Facilitate
> a discussion.
>
> ## FY12 purchase in Winter/Spring
>
>   - What to buy?
>
> <!-- end list -->
>
>   - Discussion centered around:
>
> :; Current hardware status:
>
>   -
>
>       -
>         Estimated 30-40% of the compute nodes are out of warranty
>         (which is okay so long as that percentage stays stable)
>         Infiniband hardware in BC01 and BC02 (24-port switch) will no
>         longer have hardware support as of Fall 2012
>         We need to retire the 2 DS3000 and 2 DS4000 storage devices to
>         recover a significant cost in annual maintenance (frees up for
>         compute node purchases)
>         We have one last clan of dual core blades that must be
>         replaced (4 cores and 8GB on each blade)
>
> :; Tentative needs
>
>   -
>
>       -
>         More storage - Need two more V7000 expansion shelves to
>         replace DS3000 and DS4000 devices
>         Infiniband refresh - Need minimum of two chassis of new 40Gbps
>         IB gear, ideally three.
>         Compute refresh - Need at least one more clan of compute nodes
>         : dual socket quad-core (total 8 cores), 96GB blades.
>
> :; Potential needs
>
>   -
>
>       -
>         Infiniband switch to connect the chassis?
>         Third V7000 expansion shelf to add ~18TB of \*new\* storage to
>         the cluster
>
> <!-- end list -->
>
>   - Memory and processor usage plots were not ready in time for the
>     meeting. Once finished and understood, they will be emailed to the
>     committee.

[Category:WFU DEAC Repcom
Meetings](Category:WFU_DEAC_Repcom_Meetings "wikilink")---
title: Repcom:Meeting 2011-12-15
permalink: /Repcom:Meeting_2011-12-15/
---

