# Attendance

  - Rick Matthews
  - Lynn Berry
  - Tim Miller
  - Stacy Howerton
  - Bill Kerr
  - Natalie Holzwarth
  - Greg Cook
  - Akbar Salam

# Agenda

  - 32-bit node update
  - Storage Remediation Efforts
  - Annual Purchase Status

:\* Ready to install the hardware after several physical location
restrictions have been listed.

  - Grant Funding Agency Requirements

:\* Any security requirements?

:\* Any data retention requirements?

  - Support Wiki Status

# Minutes

Attendees: Natalie Holzwarth, Stacy Howerton, Bill Kerr, Greg Cook,
Akbar Salam, Rick Matthews, Dave Chin, Tim Miller, Lynn Berry

1.  32 bit node retirement update – Two 32 bit head nodes and 7 compute
    nodes are still running. They will remain up until all code can be
    converted to 64 bit. The two head nodes will be virtualized.
2.  Storage Remediation – All performance issues appear to be resolved.
    Tim Miller moved the metadata and data to separate drives. The data
    resides on 6 dedicated drives and the metadata has 3 dedicated
    drives. GPFS0 is complete. RC1 and RC2 will need to be moved.
3.  Annual Purchase – Hardware has arrived. Power is complete. We’re
    targeting April 13/14 for installation. The list of attributes for
    the new nodes will be added to the wiki.
4.  Security – Grant funding agencies are adding requirements for data
    retention and security. Please send an email to Tim Miller, if you
    encounter these requirements.
5.  Support Wiki – Dave Chin demonstrated the new wiki. The link for the
    wiki is <https://wiki.deac.wfu.edu/index.php/Main_Page>. Please send
    updates or suggestions to deac-help@wfu.edu. Also, feel free to
    update the pages.

[Category:WFU DEAC Repcom
Meetings](Category:WFU_DEAC_Repcom_Meetings "wikilink")---
title: Repcom:Meeting 2010-04-05
permalink: /Repcom:Meeting_2010-04-05/
---

