# University Policy

The DEAC cluster facility is designed for use by University employees
and authorized students as well as a limited number of authorized
guests. All users, regardless of affiliation, are bound by the "Policy
on Responsible and Ethical Use of Computing Resources" as approved by
the Wake Forest University Committee on Information Technology. A copy
of this policy can be obtained at:

<http://groups.wfu.edu/CIT/ethical_use_policy.html>

# Cluster Specific Policy

In addition to that general policy provided by the University, use of
the cluster incurs an additional set of guidelines designed to ensure
optimal operation of the facility.

## General Usage

Given that this cluster is designed to aid the research of its users, a
certain level of professionalism and courtesy is assumed. Every attempt
will be made by the system software to maintain balance and fair usage
as defined by a representative committee designated by cluster users.
Users should abide by the restrictions imposed by the system software
and not attempt to circumvent its operation in any manner or for any
reason. In cases where the system software does not adequately balance
load or prevent system resource loads from reaching dangerous levels,
the user is responsible for limiting his or her activities
appropriately.

## Representative Committee

Each academic research group or department will provide a single
representative to participate in a committee whose charge is to
determine system resource allocation. This committee will also play a
key role in cluster planning and growth. Other issues that arise
regarding the cluster and its operation will also be presented to the
committee for discussion. There are no qualification restrictions (i.e.
faculty, staff, student) for members of this committee except that they
have full representative and decision-making status within their group.

## User Accounts

User account authorization, creation, and deletion for the WFU DEAC
facility are governed by the [Account Management
Policy](Cluster:Account_Management_Policy "wikilink") as approved by the
Representative Committee. As specified by the WFU CIT policy, the
authorized user is responsible for all activity associated with the
account assigned to that user. Thus, good password selection, secure
access/authentication and limiting accounts to one per person are
absolute minimum requirements.

Each user account will be associated with a particular "group" within
the operating system. On UNIX based accounts, it is possible for users
to allow other members of their group to have access to their files and
directories. Users should note that, in giving fellow group members
access to their files and directories, they are assuming responsibility
for all consequences of that access.

## Disk Usage

Research storage disks are intended to host research data. User home
directory space is limited and should not be used for the creation or
retention of research data. Each contributing research group has access
to a standalone filesystem, that is not shared with other groups. Groups
that submit to the General Group Fair Share Target utilize shared
storage disks; if necessary, a quota system may be implemented to
restrict the amount of space groups consume in this shared space.

Research storage disks will be backed up weekly. All data retained on
research disks is backed up; therefore, as a best practice, users should
delete temporary, duplicate, or non-mission critical when it is no
longer needed to reduce backup times and size. Weekly backups are kept
for 8 weeks by default. Users with extremely high rate of change are
subject to fewer backups.

IMPORTANT: The cluster and its data disks should not be considered a
data warehouse, final storage repository, or personal backup drive.
Users found to be using research storage disks to retain non-research
data or inappropriate content could result in their account becoming
subject to the account removal process.

## Login Procedures

Users connect interactively to the cluster facility solely through the
"head node(s)" of the cluster. All system activities should be performed
through the head nodes and the cluster queueing software. Interactive
login to the individual cluster nodes is prohibited unless expressly
allowed by the administrator.

# Cluster Privileges

Use of the cluster facility is a privilege that can and will be revoked
if deemed necessary by the cluster administrator. Chronic abuse or a
single severe, intentional malicious act are grounds for immediate
revocation of all DEAC cluster privileges. Users who are bound by the
Wake Forest University Honor Code are subject to further disciplinary
action under the provisions of the Code.

# Versioning History

  - This policy (version 3) was updated during the Spring 2016 to
    reflect changes to the cluster environment and renamed to provide
    clarity of purpose.
  - This policy (version 2) was updated during the Fall 2007 semester to
    reflect the adoption of the [Cluster:Account Management
    Policy](Cluster:Account_Management_Policy "wikilink").
  - This policy (version 1) was enacted by consensus during the Fall
    2002 semester.

[Category:Policy](Category:Policy "wikilink") [Category:New User
Information](Category:New_User_Information "wikilink")
